# Hitherlan
## A northerly peninsular nation, isolated from its neighbors by thickets of briar roses and stinging nettles, and a prehistoric bog where prehistory is rumoured to remain quite active.

### Topography & Cultural Geography
To the south, between the capitol and border-region bog, the terrain slopes into barren storm-embattled steppe inhabited by rural farmers. Approximately central to the the lowlands, a large mirror-surfaced lake nourishes fauna in the steppe's vast circumference. Gladitorial events and street fights are popular among the serfs. Criminals are frequently punished via public battle royale events. Anthropomorphic creatures maintain the accessibility of infrastructure and perform a lot of noble work in society since the government afforded them personhood and opposable thumbs. Communication barriers still prove an issue.

##### Cities & Settlements
Pocket settlements, sparsely-populated by an ancient alpine race (Fiorraga Auldres), are peppered throughout the crystalline mountains. These native people, ascetic monks mostly, adapted to the turbulent climate over millennia, and communicate extensively by way of avian heraldry, Hitherlan's preferred means of correspondence.

##### Yfeldes
The selectively low-tech hub of national activity encircling this northerly nook is known abroad as the city of Yfeldes. Occupants of the city enjoy 5 hour workdays, robust libraries, public education in the occult arts and free mystic military training during the mandatory conscription years of their youth. Vegetarian falconry is a national pastime, practiced by hermits and aristocrats alike.

##### The Imperial Palace & Fiorraga Mountains
Deep within the Fiorraga mountains, a great obsidian palace looms large and inpregnable between formidable stone monoliths and sparkling quartz cliffs, burbled angrily upon by violent arctic seafoam. The imperial palace, a hybrid of art-deco, Gigeresque, and neo-gothic architecture, seems at once to claw at the earth and to grasp at the stars, the latter impression underscored by its proximity to the currently active volcano, Auldeglace. Auldeglace regularly pumps out nebulas of vulcan haze that hang low in the sky and block out the sun for much of the day.

###  Inhabitants & Demographics
##### [The Fiorraga Auldres](people/fiorraga_auldres.md)
Fiorraga Auldres, the ancient mountain people of Hitherlan, are shapeshifters whose native form appears avian - many would say 'crowlike' or, at times, 'owlike'. In their native form, they are flightless but their connection with birds allows them an aerial perspective to varying degrees. This is because these solemn hermetic creatures maintain a sacred bond between the winged emissaries of the Thereafter and this delicate mortal coil. Their practices are as timeless as the mountain corridors they inhabit.
- If ever a human encounters a Fiorraga Auldre, s/he may not know it but for the somewhat 'unsettled' feeling in the pit of his/her stomach. This creature will most likely bare a humanized form to avoid scrutiny. If the transition was quick, it may bear a more aquiline nose, beadier eyes, and fluffier hair than your average human. It may also be in the habit of manipulating objects with its feet, which are often hidden under long robes. Manner of dress is another way one can often tell.
- Notice the use of the pronoun "it" in reference to FA. As shapeshifters, their genders are notably flexible and in the cultural spirit of self-abnegation, "it" is preferred as it lacks the 'frivolous' ego intrinsic to gender assignment.
- Those who devote themselves to the traditions of their kind are ascetic. Ego-death, utility and embrace of minimalism are the defining characteristics of their culture, in which the myopia of selfishness represents Original Sin. Self-imposed handicaps in life are regarded with admiration, provided that one concludes successfully what one set out to do. 
- To try and fail at any ascetic undertaking is deemed far worse than to have not tried at all, given deeprooted cultural stigmas against anything emblematic of of weakness, vanity and/or lack of introspection. Those who faith an oath are expected to self-sacrifice (essentially, suicide) and from the moment their oath is known to be broken, they shall don a red robe and will thereafter be ostracized. If they dishonorably persist in living, that's their business. However, if anyone should knowingly break the silence against an ostracized individual, both shall be tossed into a volcano to protect the clan from any further shame. The red robes prevent these sorts of mistakes from occuring. 
- The ritual of self sacrifice is not always immediate. Because there is a cultural prohibition against waste, the prescribed method of honorable suicide is to immediately seek out a noble cause for which one might die. The only redemption for a disgraced FA is a hero's death.
- For the aforementioned reason, the FA have many oathmaking rituals, although whether or not organized rituals are recognized varies from one individual to another. There is an organized structure to the 'faith' but individual accountability and pursuit of truth is prioritized so highly that many eschew communal rituals without reproach from peers. Regardless, the universal understanding is that oaths to oneself are as important as oaths to those around you.

##### Changelings
Changelings are ritually integrated into Hitherlan politics when the FA courtiers cyclically send an emissary in the form of an FA shapeshifter child to walk among mortals, replacing a Felemelte/human child with one of their own. This unique form of embassy results in exquisite intel into the surrounding southerly populations and a freshening up of the council's bloodline. The abducted non-FA child will inevitably take an Unseelie mate in betrothal, their offspring will be enter the pool of noble children eligible to be appointed to the Council or to the position of Lord/Lady Reagant. 

##### The Asatru : Priests of the Undying
The Asatru are both the keepers of the Auldeglace Tomb and the crusader army of God Empress Astryd. On a mundane level, they are an army of Hitherlan orphans and unwanted children trained for battle from a very young age, often from toddlerhood. Until the Return, they will remain stewards of the land and defenders of the tomb, but legend has it that a time will come when God Empress Astryd will rise again and the asatru will conquer the nations Hitherlan once possessed, the conquest for the glory of Astryd and the blood of the fallen in sacrament to the Unseelie Court.

##### The Proletariat
The Hitherlan population, a mixture of humans and forest creatures recognized equally as sharing inalienable rights of citizenship, remain conventionally mortal and earthly and are left to intermarry amongst themselves.

In the modern era, this happens to represent a relatively small (human) gene pool, and thus the population of local humans are deemed unkindly but not altogether inaccurately to be a bit imbred. Hitherlan history, for what it's worth, holds it that this was not always the case. 

Many of these commoners believe in magic, in the sense that they live in terror of the whims of their capricious god, creepy hybrid reagant and lascivious birdfolk overlords. (As discussed, the birdfolk aren't really terribly lascivious at all...) 
Some anthropomorphic creatures (Felemeltes) live among them, recognized as equal citizens, although ferals are also recognized as individuals with sovereign rights to their own person. The common faith of the proletariat and aristocracy alike is animistic, similar to druid traditions. Anyone who doesn't recognize the sanctity of  all vertebrate life is culturally reproached and shunned - such barbarism is not to be tolerated. For this reason, members of Hitherlan society tend to be insular. Also for this reason, there is no cultural stigma against cannibalism and it's a matter of pragmatism that the old, sick and weak will be eaten by their fellows. This is conidered a universal standard of fairness, which no member of society is above. Their dogmas and values are firmly entrenched and they see much of the rest of civilization as rather backward. Ironically, much of the rest of the world has a similar view of the Hitherlan people, but this is little concern of theirs...

### Lore
It is said by some that Hitherlan was formed in a yestermillennia when the region's indigenous tribes were mythically conquered by a great evil that since vanished into obscurity. It is said by some that the legends of the mountain folk hold the forgotten secrets of the Old World. It is said by others that "they themselves forgot and made up a bunch of myths to patch in the gaps. Oh, oral history, you quaint doddering thing you."

##### State Figureheads & Mythic Heroes
Hitherlan's most prominent mythic heroes include the God-Empress Astryd, her Unseelie Court and First of the Reagent, Changeling Jione (pronounced "Johnny").

The nation's current leader, Lord Reagent Smar, is one of a long line of reagents ascended since the territory was conquered in the ol' B.C.E. days. The reagents fill the archetypal role once purportedly played by Changeling Jione, a faithful servant of the sun-blighting God-Empress Astryd. 

### History
##### The Twilight Expansion & the Age of Golden Edvard
Once, long, long ago, Hitherlan territory spanned much of the continent. This time, called the Twilight Expansion, began when the mighty God-Empress Astrid ascended to the Calcil Throne and darkness ran rampant over the land. The trifling quasimortal nobility of the earth's 3 corners possessed no great heroes, so the world was but a banquet for her terrible armies and ravenous population.

Accounts differ in terms of where and why it all went wrong.

...Yet all accounts converge in agreement that it began with the Age of Golden Edvard.

### Arcana
##### Fiorra Auldre Magic
- FA are mostly hermetic, loners, reclusive except for their birds. They are, by nature, endowed with an empathic/psionic link to birds, including Felemeltian birdfolk. The degree of that link varies by an individual's arcane aptitude, age, practice, etc.
- As shapeshifters, the Fiorraga Auldres can (and have, and do) intermarry with the humans and anyone else they please. Given that many are asexual (for the love of a challenge*), procreation usually serves a purpose. Marriages most commonly occur in the Unseelie Court, to produce successors. Given the limited genepool of FAs, the mating partners are almost exclusively changelings (human or Felemelte raised among the FA) to bring in fresh blood.  
- As FA age, their bodies weaken, but their passive arcana increases (prophetic visions, deepening empathic connections with living things to an almost telepathic extent, communing with the dead). This is because, as they age, the veil between worlds thins. A Fiorraga Auldre's age-related transition to the Nether is a more gradual, less jarring process than it is for most mortals. Days pass, the candle burns, and one day it burns out.
- FA often reference 'the burning of the candle'. It has yet to be seen whether this is a literal candle each of them guards against the world that marks the beginning and end of their lives, or if it's some astral plane object outside of mundane perception but visible to FAs, or if it's just a metaphor upon which they all got the memo.
- While age brings about a maturation of FA's passive arcana, it also crystalizes form. Shapeshifting becomes a more resistant process. There is some risk for an eldery FA to become trapped in a form they inhabit for very long.
- One might wonder why a shapeshifter need age at all. As a Fiorraga Auldre once explained it, "We each are poured into this world: a cup filled to the brim. Each moment, Death takes a drink. We Fiorraga Auldre cups may change our liquid contents (apple juice to wine) but cannot replenish the quantity. To bear the pitcher of Aeora [Time] is another responsibility altogether."

##### Unseelie Magic
As a narrator, I'm just going to assume you're proceeding through this in a respectably linear fashion - so when I say, "Remember those Asatru blood rites we talked about?" You're going to think, "Yes." And I'm now going to tell you that the Unseelie are the ones they're sacrificing to. And that's going to make sense now. Some of the Unseelies are shadowfolk of the Nether: valkyries and dark spirits who await at the place between life and oblivion, feasting on the aura of spilled blood and souls.
Now remember when I explained how conservation of mass applies also to "one's alotted time in life"? You get so much, and the FA can see this. But what happens when that time gets cut short by premature death, due to murder - even accidental? Then this extra Vitality 'mass' (the concentrated portion of your soul that was still attached to your mortal form) has to go somewhere, it hasn't been used up, so it sits in the Nether - the world between the living and the dead - to continue its slow disentigration/titration into the Land of the Dead without the benefit of a fleshly prison/tool to house it. This is how we get ghosts: they are souls slowly disintegrating into Death due to having some alotted Lifeforce left unused, due to being murdered. They can't move on until that Vitality is spent, those extra years they 'should have been alive' but for intervention by another sovereign entity.
While this lifeforce (a person's ghost) remains between worlds (in the Nether), it's fair game to the Unseelie, apex predators of the Nether. Sometime ago, early Hitherlan mystics must have communed with the spirits - ghosts or the predators themselves - and established a symbiosis with these otherworldly creatures. An Unseelie can inhabit the body of a willing host, temporarily. The feeling of having one's body occupied by such an entity is a feeling of supernatural power, the perception of invincibility. For this time, a mortal is not immune to harm by a long shot, but doesn't feel pain, or fatigue - instead, they become compelled by the spirit's own bloodlust, the desire to feed their visiting entity. Once, it is said, this led to the Asatru conquering half the world.
This is not without its price. Once a spirit has had its fill, it departs from the mortal host - sated with its dinner of ghosts and seeking the freedom of disembodied life. At this point, the mortal - perhaps moreso than ever - must finally reconfront his or her mortality: perceive the pain long suppressed, tend the wounds left unheeded, surrender to frailty and fatigue. The desperation of mortal brittleness often drives the possessed to seek more possession and longer, increasingly struggling to lure hungry spirits to possess him/her for to be fed. These sorts, lacking self-control, often are their own undoing - in their pursuit of oblivion to weakness, they become careless and jeopardize their own survival. When their victims fight back, they can't feel the dying person's devastating counterattacks until the spirit eventually leaves them - a heap of ruined flesh dying on the earth. And the spirit then camps beside this body, eager to greet its former mortal slave in the Nether. Eager to be fed one last time.

### Language
##### Pronunciation notes
Y (any) is Cyrillic pronunciation, i.e. somewhere between "oo" and "uh". Example: the "ui" sound in "druid" when you roll the R.
AU (any) is Old English pronunciation, i.e. between "ull", "ahl" and "ol" but closest to "ol". Example: the "u" in "Ugh!" 
-IO- (root) is equivalent to French "ea", i.e. somewhere between "aw", "oh" and "ah". Example: the "ea" in Jean-Paul Van Damme.
-NE (suffix) is either an "nee" sound or a "nyeh" like the Cyrillic "НE".
-RE (suffix) is just a rolled R.
##### Unique terms
- Aeora (pronounced 'aira'): a word describing the length of one's mortal life as a commodity. It is a combination of the words for "Death", "Time" and "Vitality" which, in the Common Tongue, are often used interchangeably to mean the same thing.

### Whispers & Rumours: Truth & Lies
- One day when the sun is blighted by a terrible storm, God Empress Astrid will rise from the ashes to reclaim her throne. (Hitherlan myth)
- Fiorraga Auldres are all asexual aesthetics (myth of the inbred Hitherlan plebs)
- There is a Hitherlan saying that goes, "There's no woman a roggie man [FA] loves more than a challenge..." This is often misinterpreted by outsiders to imply that FAs are viciously lascivious pervs and wildly adulterous, to the extent that peasants and travelers often hide their daughters or disguise them as boys when an FA comes down from the mountains. Regarding this interpretation of the idiom: nothing could be further from the truth, as oaths are inherently sacred to FA, including oaths of monogamy when taken. 
- Fiorraga Auldres sometimes sneak members of their ancient people into the cribs of commoners Greyveldt-wide, stealing the babies of 'mortals' to be raised.
- Some sources say the non-FA babies are eaten.
- Fiorraga Auldres are sometimes referred to as 'the Unseelie', and hence, the advisory council of Hitherlan is called the Unseelie Court. (Mundane myth)
- That these shapeshifters age is said to be a spiritual toll - a trade they made with the gods: arcane powers granted for mortality. But those among them who don't believe in gods have a more empirical explanation: the nature of Materiality (a spirit's existence in the mortal realm) is conservation of mass and energy. One's alotted time is just another corporeal commodity - like mass or energy. Today's doctors can't point to it on a person, but there it is, plain as day once you see it. For whatever reason, maybe some extra sense (the way bees see ultraviolet and octopuses have 7-layer eyes), Fiorraga Auldres can indeed see this mass - they know their alotted time and the time of others. They work up until that moment in pursuit of self- and world-betterment. But they cannot change this thing, just as they cannot change their mass. They can shift physical mass into the invisible realm and appear to change size, but Vitality lacks such flexibility. 

### (Secret True Facts)
- FA aren't really immortal, they just live an unusually long time. ~200-250 years, generally, with the oldest rumored to have lived to 310. But who knows if they kept dates well back in those days, maybe they just lost count or something. It's not like any ridealong groupies collected their birthday candles for 3 centuries.
- The Unseelie Court, as representative of God Empress Astryd's dual nature, is not compromised exclusively of Fiorraga Auldres (contrary to popular opinion). Rather at least half of the court is inhabited by forces far more unsavory than that. 
- FA are mostly hermetic, loners, reclusive except for their birds. They're endowed with an empathic/psionic link to birds, including Felemeltian birdfolk. The degree of that link varies by an individual's arcane aptitude, age, practice, etc.
- As FA age, their bodies weaken, but their passive arcana increases (prophetic visions, deepening empathic connections with living things to an almost telepathic extent, communing with the dead). This is because, as they age, the veil between worlds thins. A Fiorraga Auldre's age-related transition to the Nether is a more gradual, less jarring process than it is for most mortals. Days pass, the candle burns, and one day it burns out.
- FA often reference 'the burning of the candle'. It has yet to be seen whether this is a literal candle each of them guards against the world that marks the beginning and end of their lives, or if it's some astral plane object outside of mundane perception, or if it's just a metaphor upon which they all got the memo.
- One might wonder why a shapeshifter need age at all. As a Fiorraga Auldre once explained it, "We each are poured into this world: a cup filled to the brim. Each moment, Death takes a drink. We Fiorraga Auldre cups may change our liquid contents (apple juice to wine) but cannot replenish the quantity. To bear the pitcher of Time is another responsibility altogether."
- While age brings about a maturation of FA's passive arcana, it also crystalizes form. Shapeshifting becomes a more resistant process. There is some risk for an eldery FA to become trapped in a form they inhabit for very long.
